In the last lecture we have created the Lavell blade component that this place all the tags associated
with a particular blog post.
And we've used this component on both the blog post The View and on the blog post last page where we
also display this list of tags.
Now when you click one of those links they lead nowhere right now.
And I've said in the last lecture that in this lecture will actually implant the logic responsible for
displaying all the blog posts associated with a particular tag.
Now let's think where we should put the logic responsible for displaying blog posts that are targeted
with a particular tag.
So we have our post controller which has all these crude actions that are basically centered around
a resource we even use the resource method to define the rules for this controller.
And it already has a lot of things so obviously we shouldn't put it here because this controller is
already bloated with a lot of code and definitely is a candidate to refactor it.
So if you would like to put all the logic to let's say the Post controller just because this is somehow
related with a post you might end up with a kind of Rambo controller that has a thousand lines because
you might think.
Where would you put a logic to let's say search for blog posts if you would put everything inside one
single controller then your application will quickly be unreadable and unmanageable.
So let's think what is actually a blog post we attack.
So this can be treated as another kind of resource that we can manage so we can display a list of those
blog posts that are associated with a tag.
We can also associate tags with blog posts so it's actually a good candidate to create a separate controller
that also would be centered around a kind of resource.
So this is an abstract concept of what I'm describing here.
There is no blog post tag resource.
There is no model like that.
But I think it's a good idea to create a controller that is centered around a concept.
So let's see what I mean.
So we can use peach bee artisan make controller to create a controller which we would call post TAC
controller
so we have our new controller created.
And as I've said what we want to do first is we want to display all the blog posts associated with the
tag so we can add an index action which by default and basically by convenience is used to display a
list of some kind of resources.
So in this case in post controller This is simply displaying a list of all the blog posts.
And here we can define an action like that that will be responsible for of displaying all the blog posts
that have particular tag associated.
Now this definitely needs to know about which tag we mean to display all the blog posts related to it.
So the first argument of this index method should be tag I.D..
Now let's see how would we define our route for this so it's not really a full resource controller yet.
So we can just add a normal route using the GED method and let it be posts tag and it will accept an
argument which is our tag I.D. Now let's link it with post doc controller index action and give it a
name.
We can use the Post's prefix that we already have.
So let's see what routes do we actually have right now.
By calling P2P artisan route least let's first put a semicolon here because otherwise it will just break.
So we have a couple of actions called that have the posts prefix.
So let's do this as posts docs
index.
Now let's go back to the controller.
So we are passing a tag I.D. and remember what I've said.
Let's run BHP artisan route least again to see the changes.
So this is our route.
Now what I've said is that it doesn't matter how you call the parameters inside your route because Lavell
will then pass them in order they appear inside the route name to your controller action.
So here we specified it inside the route as I.D..
But maybe let's call it just tag and call it the same here.
So that's a tag.
Now we can read our tag using that tag eloquent model so press enter here.
So Visual Studio code will add an import or add it yourself if you do not have this feature we can use
find or fail the finger we already know it will display our 404 not found page a particular tag doesn't
exist.
And basically what you can do right now is you can simply return a View using the view helper function
will use the Post's index view that we already have and only think we have to do is to pass that post
as a variable to this view or actually it's not the only thing we have to do but we will see a problem
with that in a second.
So since we can read the all the tax from our blog post but also we can read all the blog posts from
a tag.
So what we can do is dark blog posts by accessing this attribute which happens to be which happens to
have the same name as the method for the relation that we have defined on the tag model.
This will fetch all the tax associated with our particular blog post.
So it seems that everything that is everything you have to do.
But obviously it's not you will see the problem in a moment but first let's actually update the link
to this new controller so we can click the tag and see what is the actual what are the blog posts from
that tag.
So we need to add the root and the root name is posts tags index and we have to pass our parameter the
parameter name is well we actually change that to tag.
So it's not I.D. anymore.
So this is dog
but tug is actually our tug I.D..
So let's close the array and the route method or route function call sorry.
Now let's save the changes and refresh this page.
So now when we click one of those stocks we should see a list of blog posts but actually we don't.
And you can see what's the problem.
It expects a variable most commented and actually it expects expects a couple of more variables.
Most comment that most active and most active last month.
So let's open this view.
This is index blade BHP which is BHP inside resources use posts and this is our problem.
We are passing those variables and we are assuming that they are actually inside the view.
So instead of copying this code which is quite a big chunk of code to every possible blog post we can
solve it differently.
But for now let's just pass it as an array.
Most comment it will pass on empty array.
Most active also an empty array because we actually have to pass something most active.
Last month that's also an empty array.
So now when you refresh the page at least it will work and you can see that it works because we have
pressed the tag and currently we only have one blog post which has tags associated and those.
This blog post has two tax associated.
So whenever you click science or politics you will see only this one blog post but you can see on the
URL that the tag I.D. is changing.
But the problem is that on the right side of the page we see these blogs which are empty.
This doesn't make any sense.
This doesn't make our application functional but will solve that actually in the next lecture when you
will learn about the view composers.
So what you will learn is how to make the same code be available to all of your reviews without actually
calling them explicitly inside your actions.
This will solve our problem.
And then whenever we will visit our list of blog posts or particular blog posts or blog posts that have
a particular talk will will then see a list of most commented most active users and most active users
last month.
So let's see that in the next lecture.